Bonus Material
Congratulations!

We now have all the skills and knowledge to build a scalable and reliable distributed system and deploy it on multiple computers on the cloud.

Software Architecture & Design of Large Scale Systems
This course is perfect for you if you want to take your career to the next level and master Software Architecture and System Design. It complements the Distributed Systems & Cloud Computing with Java course perfectly by focusing on the design phase of large scale systems.
Throughout the course you will learn how to:

Analyze complex requirements

Design robust & easy use APIs

Use modern architectural building blocks and databases for high scalability, availability, and performance

Architect the system using industry-proven architectural patterns and best practices.

By the end the course, you will be able to take on a high-level, ambiguous requirement and take it through the entire design phase, all the way to its final software architecture.

Check out the course description, and I look forward to taking you with me on this exciting journey.

Course Latest Coupon: ARCH_SUNNY_DEC_21

Java Multithreading, Concurrency & Performance Optimization
But let's not forget that each node in our distributed system runs on a single computer, so making each application instance fast and responsive will improve our entire distributed system performance.

The best part is, when we operate on a large scale, even a small gain in performance in each instance can lead to big cost saves for our company and have an enormous impact on many users.

This is where the Java Multithreading, Concurrency & Performance Optimization comes in.

In this course, we will learn everything we need to become successful multithreaded application developers.

By the end of the course, we'll be able to build and optimize our multithreaded programs to get the most out of our computer hardware.

Follow this link for the complete course description and I look forward to joining me on this exciting journey.

Current Coupon Code BRIGHT_DEC_2021



Advanced Java Topics: Java Reflection - Master Class
For those of you who want to have full control of your system inside-out, and architect not only powerful and flexible distributed systems but also applications, libraries, and frameworks go no further.

This next course on Java Reflection will take you one big step towards complete mastery of Java, and will teach you one of its most advanced and useful features.

In the Advanced Java Topics: Java Reflection - Master Class course, we will learn a new API and set of tools to utilize your JVM's capabilities to its full potential.

Reflection allows a Java program to "examine" or introspect upon itself. This opens the door to building powerful applications, algorithms, and libraries that were impossible to create otherwise.

In this course, we will start from the basics and build our way up to complete mastery of Java Reflection, through theory, and practical application of our skills in real-life examples and use cases.

By the end of the course, you will be able to build and architect your own unique applications and algorithms powered by Java Reflection.

Check out the course description, and I look forward to taking you with me on this exciting journey.

Course Latest Coupon: SUNNY_DEC21



Java Multithreading and Concurrency - Interview Practice Exams
Are you ready to be challenged and put your Java multithreading and concurrency knowledge to the test?

Despite the course title, you don't need to wait for stressful interview to practice concurrency. This unique collection of 100+ multiple-choice questions is the perfect place for you to practice everything you ever learned about Java Multithreading, Concurrency and Performance Optimization in Java

Java Multithreading & Concurrency - Interview Practice Exams is also a great resource for you to periodically refresh your knowledge and keep your skill set up to date.

To get full access to this practice course enroll now using this link.

Course Latest Coupon: CONCUR_DEC_21



Support Your Instructor

When a course is purchased, without an instructor's coupon, the instructor earns only a small portion of the sale price.

If you'd like to support your instructor's hard work, please use the links above when purchasing the course.

Thank you!:)



Let's Connect
If want to be the first to hear about upcoming courses, articles or just stay in touch, feel free to connect with me on LinkedIn.